some more now on Reid changing her story
from a year ago in 2019 she accused
Biden of inappropriate touching but not
of assault the New York Times reports
that Reid first told the paper last year
that mr. Biden had publicly stroked her
neck wrapped his fingers in his hair and
touched her in ways that made her feel
uncomfortable but then waited until this
past March to add significant details by
the way that matched up with what a
mother Bernie Sanders supporter had said
last year the allegations against Joe
Biden go ahead in 2019 she also spoke
with the union a local newspaper in
California which reported quote
Alexandra Tara Reid said that in 1993
she was in her mid-20s when Biden then a
senator from Delaware touched her
several times making her feel
uncomfortable Reid said her
responsibilities in the Senators office
were reduced after she refused to serve
drinks at an event Reid later said she
didn't discuss the assault allegation
because she was scared and not quite
ready I wanted to share the whole thing
but at the same time I was too scared
Reid told Fox I just wasn't quite ready
one other note on the timing of this
allegation before she made her assault
allegation Reid was a Bernie Sanders
supporter and an opponent of Joe Biden
NBC News reports that after previously
supporting Marianne Williamson and
Elizabeth Warren in the 2020 race Reid
was a constant presence on Twitter after
Biden's huge Super Tuesday showing
tweeting and retweeting Pro Bernie
Sanders and aunt Abidin messages it
wasn't until after Sanders loss in
Michigan on March 15 that she tweeted
about Biden's harassment and touching
but not the alleged sexual assault two
days later she tweeted about harassment
and quote more and then on March 25th
she tweeted her interview with a
progressive podcast host her first
reference on Twitter to the assault
allegation multiple media outlets
including NBC News
New York Times and Business Insider have
reported that five people have said that
Reid told them about her concerns
regarding senator Biden in the 1990s we
told you on Friday that on April 24th
video emerged of an unnamed woman that
Reid says is her mother calling into a
1993 broadcast of CNN's Larry King Live
devoted to examining the culture of
Washington DC the woman claimed that her
daughter had run into unspecified
problems with a US senator she did not
give a name last week
one of the five a former neighbor of
Reid's went on the record by name
vouching for her telling Business
Insider that Reid told her her account
of being assaulted roughly two to three
years after the alleged account Business
Insider reports the person is a Democrat
who intends to vote for Biden this year
NBC News contacted this same woman and
the details of what she told NBC News
that Reid told her do match Reid's
account NBC News has also spoken with
Reid multiple times since she came
forward with the assault allegation and
has also spoken with five people whom
Reid said she shared varying degrees of
detail over time three of those people
said on the record that they do not
recall any such conversation with Reid a
fourth person who spoke on the condition
of anonymity said Reid told her about
the alleged assault at the time a fifth
person who also spoke with NBC News
anonymously recalled that Reid told her
in the mid-2000s that Biden had been
inappropriate and touched her when she
worked in his office but that she didn't
mention anything about an assault Reid
said that she also told her mother who
has since died and her brother who has
told the intercept that he remembers
having been told about an incident at
the time it's worth noting that Reid's
brother first told some news
organizations that at the time his
sister said she had been harassed by
Biden but then went back to at least the
Washington Post and
Vesey news to clarify that she told him
it was an assault NBC News has now also
spoken with 14 people who worked in
Biden's various offices at the time of
Reed's alleged assault four of them
declined to comment most said they did
not remember much about Reed
specifically and none of the former
staffers said they had heard any
complaints about Biden's behavior during
their time in his office the New York
Times reports that in the course of its
investigation no other allegation about
sexual assault surfaced in the course of
their reporting nor did any former Biden
staff members corroborate any details of
Reed's allegation
The Times found no pattern of sexual
misconduct by Biden the New York Times
editorial board wrote on Friday evening
that the Democratic National Committee
should move to investigate the matter
swiftly and thoroughly with the full
cooperation of the Biden campaign also
on Friday after my questioning of Joe
Biden a number of women's groups came
out with statements about the allegation
Narelle & emily's list delivered a joint
statement which reads in part it is
critical that women be heard that they
be allowed to tell their stories without
personal attacks or a system that shuts
them down today Joe Biden addressed Tara
Reid's claims voters deserve the chance
to hear from Biden especially given how
much is at stake in this election and
today they did this debate is about the
next election the most critical time the
most critical in our lifetime they go on
to point out that voters have a choice
between Joe Biden and Donald Trump and
that Trump has never addressed the
multiple credible allegations of sexual
assault against him Planned Parenthood's
statement reads in part quote we are
glad to see Vice President Biden take a
needed first step in addressing this
issue head-on we now look to Biden to
continue to push this conversation and
our country forward and times up said in
part we have reached a pivotal moment in
our nation when candidates for president
are accused of sexual assault
today Vice President Joe Biden sat down
and directly addressed the allegation
against him with the seriousness it
deserves something that the current
president has never done no longer can
claims like this go ignored Vice
President Joe Biden needed to address
Tara Reid's allegation today we call for
complete transparency into this claim
and the multiple claims against
President Donald Trump it should be
noted that Trump has denied each of the
allegations against him as for whether
an allegation like this would have come
up while Biden was being vetted to be
President Obama's vice president Andrea
Mitchell spoke with William Jeffress the
lawyer who led the team investigating
Biden for the Obama campaign and
according to Jeffress the background
check included any kind of ethical
misconduct including sexual misconduct
and found no records of any complaints
of any kind of harassment sexual
harassment discrimination or any
misconduct of any kind against
then-senator Biden
there are many curious aspects as well
regarding this matter in 2017 Reid
praised Joe Biden several times for his
actions in helping stop sexual assault
Reid liked and retweeted several posts
praising Biden's work in this area and
that same year she tweeted other
compliments of Biden including my old
boss speaks truth listen she also liked
tweets of Biden prison Obama and a tweet
that congratulated Biden for receiving
the Presidential Medal of Freedom and
one last item as it pertains to this
story the medium posts that Reid wrote
in 2018 were she heaped praise on
Vladimir Putin in one she wrote quote
President Putin has an alluring
combination of strength with gentleness
his sensuous image projects his love for
life the embodiment of grace while
facing adversity Reid later said these
comments were taken out of
texts as part of a novel she was writing
read also wrote an article in 2018
stating that she left Washington because
she was sick of American imperialism and
because she loved Russia with all her
heart
the boats are now deleted Adrian Elrod a
lot to digest here what's your takeaway
well first of all I think what's
important here to keep in mind is that
Joe Biden hit this head-on he took he
stopped for a very tough interview with
you Mika Brzezinski
and it took every question directly
didn't didn't deny didn't didn't try to
not answer questions hit every question
head-on he also was very very respectful
of mystery didn't even question her
motivations he didn't question why she
was coming forward he just unequivocally
and I think very credibly
denied that he ever did this um you know
and then he also took the transparent
step of going to the Senate and saying
please look through these records and
see if you can find anything you know
that that you know would be a claim that
she filed and you know this is 27 years
ago and certainly not common that a
United States Senator after leaving
office would keep personnel records so
he went to the Senate and asked them to
look through those records I don't know
what more Vice President Biden could do
right now and I think also it's very
important and I applaud you guys for
laying out the facts the way you did and
taking the time to do that because
context here matters and if we don't
look at both sides of this argument and
lay out the facts and oftentimes that's
what allows stories to take on a life of
their own
you know we're six months away from the
election stories how to have the ability
to take on a life of their own
especially on social media so it's very
important that we lay out the facts but
again I think Joe Biden handle handle
this very effectively something else to
keep in mind about Joe Biden American
voters trust him his trust numbers are
out the roof for a candidate running for
the presidency certainly much higher
than Donald Trump
so that means when he comes out and
makes a statement when he says something
voters believe him and that is a very
element to keep in mind as the story
goes on it's probably why Joe Biden is
crushing Donald Trump in so many states
and why Joe Biden is even pulling even
in Texas in Georgia and across the
country this weekend yesterday Maureen
Dowd wrote in her column about this and
also about the me2 movement and she
referenced Brett Kavanaugh and Al
Franken suggesting there had been over
steps and Maureen wrote this as in any
revolution there was some overreaction
when liberals heralded the idea that all
women must be believed it made me wince
wrote Maureen Dowd to suggest that every
woman who alleges a sexual assault is as
credible as the next is absurd
the idea that no woman can ever be wrong
just hurts women who has ever been lied
to by people of both genders half the
human race is female Peter Baker it
seems that as we move through this Joe
Biden's story we are going to see the
Democratic Party having debate within
itself and and a lot of media outlets
having a debate about these standards
what should be applied to Joe Biden
what should newspapers do what should
media outlets do differently than they
did during the Brett Kavanaugh hearings
or Al Franken yeah I think that's right
it's a very uncomfortable position for a
lot of Democrats to be put in Democrats
who were very strong on on opposing
Brett Kavanaugh just a couple years ago
and have made the case on other
instances of sexual misconduct certainly
taking on President Trump on that I
think it's uncomfortable in fact for the
Trump campaign in some ways because you
have the Republicans going after
Donnelly Joe Biden but every Democrat
who supports Joe Biden saying you know
who do you believe and then do you
believe tired you take her seriously the
way you say that women should be taken
seriously when they make allegations of
this sort and then you have the
President himself say but you know well
I can't I'm siding in some level with
Joe Biden saying I've been accused
falsely and therefore Joe go out and
fight it and it's kind of a conflicting
message
they're from the Trump campaign they
want to have it both ways the President
himself who's been accused by so many
women you know talking about the
likelihood of false allegations
certainly in his case and you have
Republicans on the other hand trying to
press their advantage on this and so it
makes for a very ugly situation one
that's obviously polarized and and
partisan made very partisan and people
are seeing these things through their
partisan land people who believe in Joe
Biden don't want to believe this of him
who look at his record on support for
women's rights and various sexual
assault legislation and so forth okay I
don't want to you know accept this and
are looking for reasons to doubt Tara
Reid's account at the same time of
course Republicans are pressing it for
their own political advantage and it's
just you know it's hard to know where to
fall down on this if you're somebody
wants to take these allegations very
seriously right and it's very difficult
for Donald Trump and Donald Trump's
supporters to push this because of
course the 21 women I believe it's 21
that we recounted on Friday have accused
Donald Trump of either sexual harassment
or sexual assault and of course you have
Donald Trump on tape bragging on the
access hollywood tape of sexually
assaulting women because he's famous
says he can get away with it
so john Heilmann Mika's interview
obviously on friday drew a lot of
attention
I'm curious three days later with
everything that has happened between
then and now where do you put this story
what is your what's your take away right
now on the impact on the campaign I
think that Adrian made the point that
the Joe Biden had done done an effective
job in his interview with Mika and I
think that that is I think a consensus
view of a lot of Democrats and I think
it's important to remember that that is
kind of one of the most important
dynamics here is that before Biden's
interview on Friday is much of the
incoming as much of the criticism he was
facing about people who wanted to hear
from him who said he needed to address
this the
the noise level was as much coming from
the left or more potentially coming from
the left as it was from the right the
right obviously tried to Stoke this as
Peter just said for political advantage
but also Sanders supporters and people
on the left and that's a difficult
position for a campaign to be and when
you're getting attacked by both your
extensible allies in the Democratic
Party as well as your opponents on the
Republican side so I think a lot of
Democrats said that Joe Biden on Friday
gave a lot of Democrats reasons to feel
reassured he addressed it head-on and
all the ways to Adrian said and so on I
think that there are a couple things
that are outstanding one of them is I
think given all of the voluminous
complexities and contradictions that
Mika just laid out at the top of this
block I think it makes it all the more
essential for at some point for Tara
Reid is gonna have to go on camera and
and I think in the same way as I said on
Friday that hearing from Joe Biden was
essential I think now we inaudible word
way and also for her to have to address
some of the contradictions and and and
nuances of this story it's all the more
essential if she wants to be taken
seriously for her to come out and and
and address this on camera the last
thing I'll say is this Joe you mentioned
this and Mika did too I think that it is
important of all the contextual things
that I that I think about here I really
think that you go back to 2008 I know I
wrote a book about this but you have the
2008 campaign I know what the vetting of
the vice presidential nominees was like
in the Obama White and the Obama
campaign and I know that that it's hard
to imagine that the Obama vetters would
have missed this if there was a
complaint filed in the United States
Senate I think it's almost inconceivable
that they would have missed that
complaint and if that complaint had been
there that it would that it would not
have been a central question to probably
just qualifying for Biden and everyone
who's now come forward to tested to that
vetting process and everything that my
reporting suggested at the time was that
there was never a problem of this kind
that came up around Biden I think that
may not be dispositive but it's a pretty
important piece of historical context I
think well I think I think of everything
that we've heard over the past three
days that is as put puts things into
context as well
as anything else because we've all heard
and certainly certainly 2008-2012
and and throughout time we've all heard
of potential vice-presidential
candidates who were disqualified because
of the excruciating investigations that
usually take place during the time
between somebody is considered to be
vice president and the time that
somebody is selected as vice president
John Heilemann thank you so much greatly
appreciated Peter Baker we thank you as
well thanks a lot for being with us and
Adrian Elrod thank you so much as well
thanks for checking out MSNBC on YouTube
and make sure you subscribe to stay
up-to-date on the day's biggest stories
and you can click on any of the videos
around us to watch more 4 Morning Joe
and MSNBC thanks so much for watching